.TH flipbook 1
.SH NAME
flipbook \- multi-frame editor and viewer derived from drawtool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B flipbook
.I [-bookgeom] [-slideshow sec] ['X-params'] [file]
.SH DESCRIPTION

flipbook is a program derived from idraw/drawtool that supports
multi-frame graphic display.  The zeroth frame is always visible as
the background frame, and in front of it is displayed the current
frame (1 thru n).
.PP
The Frame menu controls the frame display mechanism.  The operations
are:
.PP
.nf
Menu Item       Keyboard        Description
--------------	--------	-----------
Move Forward	^F              move forward one frame
Move Backward	^B              move backward one frame
Goto First Frame                move to the first frame
Goto Last Frame                 move to the last frame
New Forward      F              create new frame in front of the current
                                frame and make it the current frame
New Backward     B              create new frame in back of the current
                                frame and make it the current frame
Copy Forward     X              copy current frame in front of itself
Copy Backward    Y              copy current frame in back of itself
Delete           D              delete current frame (the zeroth frame
                                can never be deleted)
.fi

By default a flipbook document is positioned on the first frame
when opened (if one exists).  "Move Backward" can be used to move to
the background frame when positioned on the first frame.  "Move
Forward" then returns to the first frame.  

The New command creates a document with only a background frame.  The
"New After" command can then be used to initialize the first frame
("New Before" does not work when the current frame is the background
frame).

flipbook save/restores its documents with a document format specific
to flipbook (and possibly programs derived from flipbook).  Idraw
format drawings can be imported via the "Import Graphic" command
(under the File menu).  The rest of the flexibile import mechanism of
drawtool is supported as well.  "Export Graphic" exports currently
selected graphics in idraw or drawtool format.  The Print command
(under the File menu) generates a multi-page Postscript document, one
page per frame except for the zeroth frame which is always the
background.

.SH OPTIONS

"-bookgeom" brings up the flipbook in landscape mode, with a 906 by
700 pixel page size.  Useful for viewing illustrated books prepared in
this mode.

"-slideshow sec" continuously plays the contents of a flipbook file
with "sec" delay between frames (currently only available when built
with ACE).  

Also see "-help" for more options, and the comdraw, drawtool, and
idraw man pages.

.SH SEE ALSO
	drawtool, idraw

.SH WEB PAGE
	http://www.ivtools.org/ivtools/flipbook.html

